# cybersecurity

## Overview
This project uses Python 3.9.1 and the necessary library is listed in requirements.txt. The code here is used for training and testing using the UGR16 dataset specifically July week5 to August Week4. One will need to change the parameters in the code if another time is interested.

## High-Level Workflow
1. Download the data from the UGR16 dataset
2. Use `clean_csv.py` to process the raw CSV file first in case there is any corrupted data
3. Feel free to split the data into training and test set
4. Use `generate_tensor_64_64_64.py` to generate either the general tensor or the port tensor for both training and test set
5. Use `training.py` to train the model defined in the `model.py`. We only have one model type for now.
6. After the training is done, use one of the options described in the Anomaly Detection section to get detection results. Those results will be stored in one folder.
7. Finally, open `get_report.ipynb` to visualize the result. 
8. The `anomaly_remove.py` will be used if one wants to remove all the detected traffic from the raw traffic

## Anomaly Detection
1. Using a general model with general tensor with `anomaly_detection_general.py`
2. Using a port model with port tensor
    
    This method will need to run `anomaly_detection_p1.py` first and then run `anomaly_detection_p2.py`
    
## Clean
`clean_csv.py` will remove any row with nan as a value in the CSV file. This is used as some rows are corrupted in the UGR16 dataset.

## Tensor Generation
We have two types of tensors. One is called a general tensor, the other is called a port tensor. Both can be generated by calling the file `generate_tensor_64_64_64.py` with different parameters.

## Model Training
models are defined under `model.py` and the `training.py` will use the model defined here.

## Util
The `util.py` defines many shared functions for computation and also shared parameters for the setting. It is used by most files. Therefore, it is recommended to put all the files inside one directory. 
